#summary Getting started with TongueTied.
#labels Phase-Deploy

= Introduction =

Here you will learn how to set up !TongueTied after you have installed it. This howto assumes you have followed the [InstallationInstructions Installation Instructions] and that the !TongueTied server is running.


= Details =

!TongueTied is a resource management tool. The basic idea is that a Keyword contains translations. Each translation of a keyword is identified by a Language, Country and Bundle. The default Language, Country and Bundle are already set up. Follow these instructions to set up additional Bundles, Countries and Languages. 

  # Login in as an administrator or developer (The default admin username / password is admin / admin).
  # Create your resource bundles. 
  # Select the "Bundles" tab. 
  # Select the "New Bundle" option.
  # Complete the form and save. Please note that the Resource Name of the bundle should *NOT* include the resource suffix (e.g. .properties, .resx, .csv etc). !TongueTied will determine the resource file suffix when importing or exporting. Resource bundles can include a hierarchical structure which will be used when exporting to Java or .Net bundles. The format of the resource name should be delimited by the "\" or the "/" chararcters in the format "`/<SOME_DIR>/<RESOURCE_NAME>`" for example "`/org/tonguetied/example/mybundle`"
  # Create a language. 
  # Select the "Languages" tab. 
  # Select the "New Language" option.
  # Complete the form and save.
  # Create your countries. 
  # Select the "Countries" tab. 
  # Select the "New Country" option.
  # Complete the form and save.
  # Start creating your translations

*N.B* that only "Administrator" or "Developer" roles have permission to add or edit Bundles, Countries or Languages.

Next: [ImportingTranslations Importing translations]